README.md, before:

# Quantum Chemistry Cpp

## Introduction


## Purpose
It was around 2018 when I first started writing quantum chemistry programs. I was lucky enough to find a great tutorial from [Crawford Group](https://crawford.chem.vt.edu/) as well as an easy to understand book. 



## Prerequisites
* Quantum Chemistry, it is best to have taken a relevant course or read a book on this subject.
* C++ programming experience (500-1000 lines of code) and basic data structures.

## Feedback
* Ask a question where you don't understand
* Spot incorrect or incomprehensible expressions
* Submit bugs and improve the quality of code
* Make a suggestion for improving the document

In any of the above situations, you can contact me via [email](mailto:rudin.jiang@gmail.com). I would greatly appreciate receiving any suggestions that readers may have for improving the document.

## Table of contents
- [Project #01](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2301): Something about C++ Programming.
- [Project #02](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2302): Encapsulation of Matrix Class.
- [Project #03](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2303): The Hartree-Fock SCF procedure.
- [Project #04](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2304): Molecular Integral Evaluation.
- [Project #05](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2305): Hartree-Fock 解析梯度
- [Project #06](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2306): Hartree-Fock Hessian 和频率计算
- [Project #07](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2307): 波函数初猜和加速SCF收敛
- [Project #08](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2308): DFT
- [Project #09](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2309): CI
- [Project #10](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2310): 
- [Project #11](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2311)
- [Project #12](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2312)
- [Project #13](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2313)
- [Project #14](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2314)
- [Project #15](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2315)
- [Project #16](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2316)
- [Project #17](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2317)
- [Project #18](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2318)
- [Project #19](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2319)
- [Project #20](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2320)

## References

[^1]: ProgrammingProjects [https://github.com/CrawfordGroup/ProgrammingProjects](https://github.com/CrawfordGroup/ProgrammingProjects)

- [*Quantum Chemistry (7th Edition)*. Ira N. Levine. Pearson, 2013.](https://www.amazon.com/Quantum-Chemistry-7th-Ira-Levine/dp/0321803450)
- [*Modern Quantum Chemistry*. Attila Szabo and Neil S. Ostlund. Dover Publications, 1996.](https://www.amazon.com/Modern-Quantum-Chemistry-Introduction-Electronic/dp/0486691861)
- [*Molecular Electronic-Structure Theory*. Trygve Helgaker, et al. Wiley, 2014.](https://www.amazon.com/Molecular-Electronic-Structure-Theory-Trygve-Helgaker/dp/1118531477)

## Acknowledge
It is a pleasure to thank those people who helped me with different aspects of this document.
- *Lingxiao Zhan* helped me improve the English expression in this document.
- *Luoyan Yu* helped me review

Commit message:

home page finish without review

README.md, after:

# Quantum Chemistry Cpp

## Introduction
This document focuses on how to write quantum chemistry programs with C++. In addition to how to write the program, this document also focuses on giving detailed references and some programming language details that can reduce bugs and make the program run faster.

## Purpose
It was around 2018 when I first started writing quantum chemistry programs. I was lucky enough to find a great tutorial[<sup>[1]</sup>](#ref1) from [Crawford Group](https://crawford.chem.vt.edu) as well as an easy to understand book.[<sup>[2]</sup>](#ref2) As I learned more, I found some other references that were also helpful in writing quantum chemistry programs. I hope to use this document to list them and point out some key points in programming so that future learners can avoid detours.

## Prerequisites
* Quantum Chemistry, it is best to have taken a relevant course or read a book on this subject.
* C++ programming experience (500-1000 lines of code) and basic data structures.

## Feedback
* Ask a question where you don't understand
* Spot incorrect or incomprehensible expressions
* Submit bugs and improve the quality of code
* Make a suggestion for improving the document

In any of the above situations, you can contact me via [email](mailto:rudin.jiang@gmail.com). I would greatly appreciate receiving any suggestions that readers may have for improving the document.

## Table of contents
- [Project #01](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2301): Something about C++ Programming.
- [Project #02](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2302): Encapsulation of Matrix Class.
- [Project #03](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2303): The Hartree-Fock SCF procedure.
- [Project #04](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2304): Molecular Integral Evaluation.
- [Project #05](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2305): Hartree-Fock 解析梯度
- [Project #06](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2306): Hartree-Fock Hessian 和频率计算
- [Project #07](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2307): 波函数初猜和加速SCF收敛
- [Project #08](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2308): DFT
- [Project #09](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2309): CI
- [Project #10](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2310): 
- [Project #11](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2311)
- [Project #12](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2312)
- [Project #13](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2313)
- [Project #14](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2314)
- [Project #15](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2315)
- [Project #16](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2316)
- [Project #17](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2317)
- [Project #18](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2318)
- [Project #19](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2319)
- [Project #20](https://github.com/rudin-jiang/QuantumChemistryCpp/tree/master/Project%2320)


## Acknowledge
It is a pleasure to thank those people who helped me with different aspects of this document.
- *Lingxiao Zhan* helped me improve the English expression in this document.
<!-- - *Luoyan Yu* helped me review this document. -->

## References
<a id="ref1"></a> [1] [*Programming Projects* from Crawford Group](https://github.com/CrawfordGroup/ProgrammingProjects)
<a id="ref2"></a> [2] [*Modern Quantum Chemistry*. Attila Szabo and Neil S. Ostlund. Dover Publications, 1996.](https://www.amazon.com/Modern-Quantum-Chemistry-Introduction-Electronic/dp/0486691861)
<a id="ref3"></a> [3] [*Quantum Chemistry (7th Edition)*. Ira N. Levine. Pearson, 2013.](https://www.amazon.com/Quantum-Chemistry-7th-Ira-Levine/dp/0321803450)
<a id="ref4"></a> [4] [*Molecular Electronic-Structure Theory*. Trygve Helgaker, et al. Wiley, 2014.](https://www.amazon.com/Molecular-Electronic-Structure-Theory-Trygve-Helgaker/dp/1118531477)
